---
layout: post
title: N-Queens
tags: [programming, CS, Hack Reactor, JavaScript]

---

[Eric Schmidt](https://github.com/eds101) and I were asked to write an algorithm to solve the N-Queens problem: how many different ways can *n* queens fit on an *n x n* chessboard, such that none of the queens could knock out another in a single move?

### For Example
* 1x1 board with 1 queen: **1 way**
* 2x2 board with 2 queens: **no ways**
* 3x3 board with 3 queens: **no ways**
* 4x4 board with 4 queens: **2 ways**

And so on.

For context, the world record for counting solutions to this problem is *n = 26*, which uses world-class supercomputers.

This is a hard problem because it involves recursive backtracking through possibilities, and the time-complexity is *n!* difficult.

But Hack Reactor offered a good amount of guidance about how to approach the challenge, and our first algorithm was able to solve up to *n = 15* in about 300 milliseconds.

Then we were able to plug our solution-finding algorithm into a chessboard visualizer, so all of the different possibilities can be examined for any given n.

We also implemented the famous bitwise algorithm from [Martin's 1973 paper](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mr10/backtrk.pdf).

And then we were able to make this work multi-threaded using [Web Workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API). That was new for us, and not very straightforward -- there's not much good documentation about how to use these new techniques -- but eventually we got it working. It managed to cut down the computation time for *n = 16* from 800ms to 400ms, a 50% improvement.

We successfully got that to run for *n = 19*, which took 50 minutes. If it continued to follow a factorial run-time, we'd expect *n = 20* to take almost 17 hours.
