

But, but, but, here's what you are missing, where you are going wrong: The VCs have "deep domain expertise". And we do know this because nearly all their Web sites say that they do! We're talking deep, deep, way down deep domain expertise!
They got this expertise by long and hard study and work in the STEM fields? Oh no! Instead their path was much better, from being an English literature, history, or foreign policy major, maybe an MBA (I used to be an MBA prof), reading 1000 executive summaries, 200 foil decks, with the rules of no more than 10 foils per deck with just a few simple words per foil with 30 point fonts, listening to 5 elevator pitches a day on their phone messaging, and from an earlier career in business development!
Now don't you see why they have such deep domain expertise? Deep, deep here!
Aaron Sorkin could think of a better way of saying it, maybe -- Deep. I've been watching Silicon Valley since before the Bubble, and I've never seen anything so deep. Brutal. Brutally deep. Excruciatingly brutal. As at, say
http://flash.sonypictures.com/video/movies/thesocialnetwork/...
So, what's going on? Hmm, .... Maybe we should, say, "follow the money"? What money? Well, they get their 2 and 20%. To do that they have to have some investments that do obey the laws of physics and become successful companies, have some good exits from those companies, and, thus, make money for their limited partners (LPs)?
Not necessarily! Maybe they don't know much about physics or the STEM fields, but maybe they do have some domain expertise, that is, in making money.
How, then, while trying to violate the laws of physics?
Well, in short, please some other people. Or find some even bigger fools and separate them from their money!
The bigger fools? Would you assume that the portfolio managers at the major institutional investors were better qualified in the STEM fields and building actual successful companies than the VCs? I wouldn't!
Instead these limited partners (LPs), following their herd, the Wildebeest are not all completely wrong, you understand, put a small fraction of their funds into the alternate investment asset class, i.e., VC.
This asset class is making money? Not much on average! Or see
http://www.avc.com/a_vc/2013/02/venture-capital-returns.html...
Still, the LPs invest! Why? They don't want to miss out on the next Google. Besides, who can be sure what technology will do in the future? Besides, that's what all the other portfolio managers of the state pension funds and university endowments are doing, so just fit into that herd, match the returns they get, and tell any critics that the fund is doing what all the other funds are doing. Besides, the money invested with the VCs is just a small fraction of what the LPs have in their portfolios.
So, if the LPs are happy, then for 10 years or so the VCs get their 2%. Then for the exits, there might be an IPO with, from the 2000 bubble "Never be between a VC and the door when the lock up period is over". Or there might be an M&A when the CEO of a big, old, but now slowly shrinking company UGE buys a start-up, in an all stock deal, to make the stockholders of the big company UGE feel better for a while, long enough for the UGE CEO to get a nice bonus and golden parachute from his BoD. Or, do an M&A for about $2 million per software developer of the start-up, that is, do an acqui hire. Or do an M&A with another company in their portfolio following the rule that combining two, money losing, sick companies can use the law of synergy that the sum is greater than the parts to make one healthy company. In such cases, the VC gets 20%.
VC starts to sound like a good gig, all without any role for the STEM fields or the laws of physics. Or, the deep domain expertise is the bigger fool theory and "follow the money"?

--- graycat [hn comment](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=8543150)